Four of his five wits went halting off, and now is the whole man governed with one: so that if he have wit enough to keep himself warm, let him bear it for a difference between himself and his horse; for it is all the wealth that he hath left, to be known a reasonable creature.
They have a plentiful lack of wit.
It is a tale told by an idiot, full of sound and fury, signifying nothing.
His wit's as thick as a Tewkesbury mustard.
Your abilities are too infant-like for doing much alone.
If thou wilt needs marry, marry a fool; for wise men know well enough what monsters you make of them.
More of your conversation would infect my brain.
Thou sodden-witted lord! Thou hast no more brain than I have in mine elbows!
Your brain is as dry as the remainder biscuit after voyage.
If you spend word for word with me, I shall make your wit bankrupt.
He has not so much brain as ear-wax.
Thou art the cap of all the fools.
There's small choice in rotten apples.
Away thou rag, thou quantity, thou remnant.
Foul spoken coward, that thund'rest with thy tongue, and with thy weapon nothing dares perform.
Go, prick thy face, and over-red thy fear, Thou lily-liver'd boy.
You, minion, are too saucy.
I must tell you friendly in your ear, sell when you can, you are not for all markets.
I scorn you, scurvy companion.
Was the Duke a flesh-monger, a fool and a coward?
You are not worth another word, else I'd call you knave.
Thou whoreson zed, thou unnecessary letter!
Thy sin's not accidental, but a trade.
A fool, an empty purse. There was no money in't.
Thy tongue outvenoms all the worms of Nile.
Away, you mouldy rogue, away!
Would thou wert clean enough to spit upon.
I do desire that we may be better strangers.
You are as a candle, the better burnt out.
Drunkenness is his best virtue, for he will be swine drunk, and in his sleep he does little harm, save to his bedclothes about him.
You are now sailed into the north of my lady's opinion, where you will hang like an icicle on a Dutchman's beard.
Threadbare juggler!
Eater of broken meats!
Saucy lackey!
Heaven truly knows that thou art false as hell.
Thou subtle, perjur'd, false, disloyal man!
Thine forward voice, now, is to speak well of thine friend; thine backward voice is to utter foul speeches and to detract.
Dissembling harlot, thou art false in all.
There's no more faith in thee than in a stewed prune.
A most notable coward, an infinite and endless liar, an hourly promise breaker, the owner of no one good quality.
I do wish thou were a dog, that I might love thee something.
What an ass!
What a thrice-double ass!
Poisonous bunch-backed toad!
Here is the babe, as loathsome as a toad.
Like the toad; ugly and venomous.
Thou cream faced loon!
Bottled spider!
A rare parrot-teacher!
Come, come, you froward and unable worms!
A weasel hath not such a deal of spleen as you are toss'd with.
Pigeon-liver'd and lack gall.
She hath more hair than wit, and more faults than hairs, and more wealth than faults.
No longer from head to foot than from hip to hip, she is spherical, like a globe, I could find out countries in her.
You have such a February face, so full of frost, of storm and cloudiness.
I am sick when I do look on thee. (A Midsummer Night's Dream.
Out of my sight! thou dost infect my eyes.
Thou art a boil, a plague sore, an embossed carbuncle in my corrupted blood.
The rankest compound of villainous smell that ever offended nostril.
The tartness of his face sours ripe grapes.
Her face is not worth sunburning.
Thou art as fat as butter.
Thou lump of foul deformity.
O you beast! I'll so maul you and your toasting-iron, That you shall think the devil is come from hell.
By mine honour, if I were but two hours younger, I'd beat thee. Methink'st thou art a general offence, and every man should beat thee.
I'll beat thee, but I would infect my hands.
Would thou wouldst burst!
Thou hateful wither'd hag!
You should be women, and yet your beards forbid me to interpret that you are so.
My wife's a hobby horse!
You poor, base, rascally, cheating lack-linen mate!
Whoreson caterpillars, bacon-fed knaves!
This woman's an easy glove, my lord, she goes off and on at pleasure.
Your virginity breeds mites, much like a cheese.
Villain, I have done thy mother.
Away, you three-inch fool!
That trunk of humours, that bolting-hutch of beastliness, that swollen parcel of dropsies, that huge bombard of sack, that stuffed cloak-bag of guts, that roasted Manningtree ox with pudding in his belly, that reverend vice, that grey Iniquity, that father ruffian, that vanity in years?
Thou flea, thou nit, thou winter-cricket thou!
Thou art unfit for any place but hell.
Thou clay-brained guts, thou knotty-pated fool, thou whoreson obscene greasy tallow-catch!
Thou damned and luxurious mountain goat.
Thou elvish-mark'd, abortive, rooting hog!
Thou leathern-jerkin, crystal-button, knot-pated, agatering, puke-stocking, caddis-garter, smooth-tongue, Spanish pouch!
Thou art a base, proud, shallow, beggarly, three-suited, hundred-pound, filthy worsted-stocking knave; a lily-liver'd, action-taking, whoreson, glass-gazing, superserviceable, finical rogue; one-trunk-inheriting slave; one that wouldst be a bawd in way of good service, and art nothing but the composition of a knave, beggar, coward, pandar, and the son and heir of a mongrel bitch.
You scullion! You rampallian! You fustilarian! I'll tickle your catastrophe!
Bloody, bawdy villain! Remorseless, treacherous, lecherous, kindless villain!
Away, you starvelling, you elf-skin, you dried neat's-tongue, bull's-pizzle, you stock-fish! You tailor's-yard, you sheath, you bow-case, you vile standing tuck!